# joseph.md

My name is Joseph Armstrong. I'm a 4th year CS major. I do nto have much development experience, but I've always wanted to learn game development with Unity, so I'm very excited to work on this project. I am familiar with C++, C, Java, Python, and a little bit of JavaScript, but seeing as how we are going to use Unity, meaning we will primarily be coding in C#, Java is probably the most relevant experience I have.

I have many ideas for the 2D platformer game we are going to develop. I think that complexity and difficulty progression to be kep in mind to acclimate the player in an enjoyable, intuitive, and relaxing manner. Secret objectives, areas, or items would be cool. The main gimmick of this game will be the notion of telekinetically linking objects together. I'm thinking that at some point of the game, objects can have a color and that only objects of the same color can be linked together. Perhaps we could also include a wildcard color as well. Additionally, I'm thinking that there could be a potion the player can drink to change the player's color and linked to objects. I also think that some objects could be pushable. I'm also going to paste the ideas I wrote during our first team meeting over the weekend:

"The mechanism by which objects are linked could be dependent on some items possessed. At the beginning of the game, the player is only able to link items it can touch. Maybe later on, the player obtains an item that can shoot a projectile at the object you want to link. And maybe even later on in the game, the player can get an item (maybe a x-time use item) to pause time and click on the objects to link together. I like the idea of having a transparent line tethering linked objects together. I was thinking that the color of the objects could determine if the objects were linkable or not. I was also thinking that some objects could be surrounded by “special material” that prevents the tether from reaching it, requiring the player to find a way to get rid of the encasing to link the object. I was also thinking that the player could come across some item, like a color potion, to drink and become a certain color and then be able to link with other objects of the same color. I always liked games where some items obtained later in the game unlocked areas from the beginning of the game.

Enemies that could be linked, break existing links, create links, would be cool. This could also expand the kind of items we want the player to discover. Different ways to kill enemies, or even just deal with them. Also, maybe enemies can have a projectile that immobilizes the player, or deactivates certain items. 

Whether our rooms are screen-scrollers themselves or just “one-screen puzzles”, maybe there could be areas within the room “maybe outlined by differently textured walls or something, where certain items are unusable.

I love secrets. I think there should be a credits page on the main menu, and maybe a shiny item in the background on a shelf somewhere. Doesn’t have to be an important item, but just something cool. Personally, I embody the completionist, puzzler, and “secret-finder?” kind of player."